content/posts/166-keyboard-collection/index.en.md, before:

+++
Author = "Lord"
Description = "I already talked about my little fetish : keyboards. Here is my old keyboards colection. See those wonderful pictures !"
Categories = ["keyboard", "hardware"]
menu = "main"
notoc = true
PublishDate = 2019-05-14T18:27:14+02:00
date = 2019-05-14T18:27:14+02:00
title = "My keyboard colection"
editor = "kakoune"
+++
I wanted to share my keyboard colection for a while now.
These are not the most beautiful nor the best ones but i like'em a lot.
I'm quite proud of it.
Most of them were found while dumpster diving.

I tried to took good pictures to show them off.
They are all working and i use some of them from time to time.

Just a last warning : I didn't cleant them perfectly so they aren't all shiny and chrome !
You'll probably see that i host some cats and their fur.

If you click on pictures you'll have a better shot of them.

## Microsoft Natural Keyboard

Here is my first thoughtful purchase, a long time ago.
I liked it a lot and I'm still a bit nostalgic each time I see it… but i can't bear it's touch-feeling now.

Once you tried mechs, you can't go back to those crappy switches.

{{< img src="microsoft_front.thumb.jpg" link="microsoft_front.jpg" alt="An old splitted keyboard from 20 years ago" title="It's design is still quite pleasing, no ?"  >}}

It's a *PS2* version which had some succesors.

{{< img src="microsoft_zoom.thumb.jpg" link="microsoft_zoom.jpg" alt="A glamshot picture emphasing on the split." title="Really, I still like this look." >}}

Good, let's go back to the closet.
Sorry mate.

## Razer Black Widow

A basic gamer mechanical keyboard.
I barely used it because it's my wife's keyboard (at least it was).


It uses cherry *MX Blue* so it's quite… noisy.
It's an *USB* one.
We tweaked it a bit (replaced some switches to MX Blacks, some O-rings, a keycap) but nothing very hard.

{< img src="razer_front.thumb.jpg" link="razer_front.jpg" alt="Un clavier noir avec un design anguleux" title="razer oblige c'est noir et anguleux. Pas de loupiote sur çui-là." >}}

This one isn't used anymore.
It's still plugged to a tiny server in the closet in case of maintenance (one a year).

## Siemens ??

This one was rescued from the dumpster.
It relies on *black cherry MX*


It's a *PS2* keyboard with a nice cable.


## Bleudo
Not it's real name but it fits well !

{{< img src="bleudo_front.thumb.jpg" link="bleudo_front.jpg" alt="This one has lots of blue keycaps with telephone symbols printed" title="More exotic, isn't it ?" >}}

It's *PS2* with *Cherry black* which were plugged to a PBX.
Coupled with a telephone and some computer software you could do anything with it very efficiently and fast.

{{< img src="bleudo_zoom.thumb.jpg" link="bleudo_zoom.jpg" alt="le usual glamshot" title="I find this one very sexy, i love it" >}}

## Alcatel 4059
This one could be the big brother of the previous.

{{< img src="alcatelphone_front.thumb.jpg" link="alcatelphone_front.jpg" alt="It has more keys than the previous one. Most of them are dedicated to telephony features with windows for LED." title="Isn't this one a classy keyboard ? Lots of LED and windows and all." >}}

It's quite a heavy board.
It's bigger than usual keyboards and uses *MX black* switches.

It can't be plugged directly to a computer, it needs an external box with a lot of electronic to work.
There is an USB version but it's not this one.
This one was used for telephony stuff too.

{{< img src="alcatelphone_zoom.thumb.jpg" link="alcatelphone_zoom.jpg" alt="Encore a glamshot" title="As I can't use it, it's far from being clean. It's a bit sad.">}}

I never tried it at home but i used it at work a bit.

## Alcatel ??
Another one from Alcatel but a *PS2* *black cherry*.

This one is more classic than the previous two.

{{< img src="alcatel_front.thumb.jpg" link="alcatel_front.jpg" alt="Another basic one." title="It's the doppleganger of the Siemens. These two were Cherry keyboards rebranded." >}}

{{< img src="alcatel_zoom.thumb.jpg" link="alcatel_zoom.jpg" alt="Another Glamshot" title="Ooops it's still a bit wet.">}}

I didn't used it a lot.

## Sesam ??
It's not it's real name but i'll explain it.
This one is the one currently used by my wife.

It's one the favorite but i won't spoil you !


This keyboard was used by french doctors.
It can read smartcard used by french people to get some medicine and all.
It's plugged with *PS2* and also *RS323* !

These are *black switches*.

I only plug the PS2 to use it.
It then boot !



I plug it back !

## IBM Model M
What would be any keyboard enthusiast without a Model M ?

{{< img src="modelm_front.thumb.jpg" link="modelm_front.jpg" alt="This is a very famous keyboard from the 80s with a different layout than what we are used to. It features keys from F1 to F24" title="The beast. The heaviest of them all !" >}}

Here is the legend !
It's not Cherry MX switches but it uses custom buckling springs.
The click is very distinctive but you'll need to press them hard.

{{< img src="modelm_open.thumb.jpg" link="modelm_open.jpg" alt="I opened it to understand why is it so heavy. There is thick metal plate in it." title="You just need to add four wheels to have a sturdy skateboard !"  >}}

The originat connector was a *DIN* which i cut to put a *Teensy inside to get USB*.
Bad luck, not every keys are recognized.
It's barely usable.

{{< img src="modelm_hack.thumb.jpg" link="modelm_hack.jpg" alt="The little teensy is a small PCB with a custom firmware to translate AT signal to USB Hid" title="It's quite a basic hack but it works but I should have put a longer cable !" >}}

Maybe tweaking the firmware (soarer) could help it work better.

I baught it for 10€.

{{< img src="modelm_zoom.thumb.jpg" link="modelm_zoom.jpg" alt="Encore un glamshot" title="From this close it looks normal." >}}

## My favorite !

This is my handmade keyboard with *Cherry MX Brown* using *USB*.

{{< img src="lrd201905_front.thumb.jpg" link="lrd201905_front.jpg" alt="A wooden frame, an aluminium plate, some wires, a teensy and some switches." title="Behold the polish !" >}}

It's a mix of different keycaps with four different profiles.
65 keys but one isn't used at all.

{{< img src="lrd201905_zoom.thumb.jpg" link="lrd201905_zoom.jpg" alt="L'ultime glam shot." title="It deserves to be cleant !">}}

This is the one i used for the last 4 years most of the time.

## Typematrix 2030

I don't have it anymore, so no photos.

I used it while i learned to type with the bépo layout ("french dvorak").
I gifted when my handmade was ready to be used.

---------

Commit message:

[POSTS] 166 - Ajout du combo clavier/trackpad à la collection

content/posts/166-keyboard-collection/index.en.md, after:

+++
Author = "Lord"
Description = "I already talked about my little fetish : keyboards. Here is my old keyboards colection. See those wonderful pictures !"
Categories = ["keyboard", "hardware"]
menu = "main"
notoc = true
PublishDate = 2019-05-14T18:27:14+02:00
date = 2019-05-14T18:27:14+02:00
lastEdit = 2020-12-05T11:40:20+02:00
title = "My keyboard colection"
editor = "kakoune"
+++
I wanted to share my keyboard colection for a while now.
These are not the most beautiful nor the best ones but i like'em a lot.
I'm quite proud of it.
Most of them were found while dumpster diving.

I tried to took good pictures to show them off.
They are all working and i use some of them from time to time.

Just a last warning : I didn't cleant them perfectly so they aren't all shiny and chrome !
You'll probably see that i host some cats and their fur.

If you click on pictures you'll have a better shot of them.

## Microsoft Natural Keyboard

Here is my first thoughtful purchase, a long time ago.
I liked it a lot and I'm still a bit nostalgic each time I see it… but i can't bear it's touch-feeling now.

Once you tried mechs, you can't go back to those crappy switches.

{{< img src="microsoft_front.thumb.jpg" link="microsoft_front.jpg" alt="An old splitted keyboard from 20 years ago" title="It's design is still quite pleasing, no ?"  >}}

It's a *PS2* version which had some succesors.

{{< img src="microsoft_zoom.thumb.jpg" link="microsoft_zoom.jpg" alt="A glamshot picture emphasing on the split." title="Really, I still like this look." >}}

Good, let's go back to the closet.
Sorry mate.

## Razer Black Widow

A basic gamer mechanical keyboard.
I barely used it because it's my wife's keyboard (at least it was).


It uses cherry *MX Blue* so it's quite… noisy.
It's an *USB* one.
We tweaked it a bit (replaced some switches to MX Blacks, some O-rings, a keycap) but nothing very hard.

{< img src="razer_front.thumb.jpg" link="razer_front.jpg" alt="Un clavier noir avec un design anguleux" title="razer oblige c'est noir et anguleux. Pas de loupiote sur çui-là." >}}

This one isn't used anymore.
It's still plugged to a tiny server in the closet in case of maintenance (one a year).

## Siemens ??

This one was rescued from the dumpster.
It relies on *black cherry MX*


It's a *PS2* keyboard with a nice cable.


## Bleudo
Not it's real name but it fits well !

{{< img src="bleudo_front.thumb.jpg" link="bleudo_front.jpg" alt="This one has lots of blue keycaps with telephone symbols printed" title="More exotic, isn't it ?" >}}

It's *PS2* with *Cherry black* which were plugged to a PBX.
Coupled with a telephone and some computer software you could do anything with it very efficiently and fast.

{{< img src="bleudo_zoom.thumb.jpg" link="bleudo_zoom.jpg" alt="le usual glamshot" title="I find this one very sexy, i love it" >}}

## Alcatel 4059
This one could be the big brother of the previous.

{{< img src="alcatelphone_front.thumb.jpg" link="alcatelphone_front.jpg" alt="It has more keys than the previous one. Most of them are dedicated to telephony features with windows for LED." title="Isn't this one a classy keyboard ? Lots of LED and windows and all." >}}

It's quite a heavy board.
It's bigger than usual keyboards and uses *MX black* switches.

It can't be plugged directly to a computer, it needs an external box with a lot of electronic to work.
There is an USB version but it's not this one.
This one was used for telephony stuff too.

{{< img src="alcatelphone_zoom.thumb.jpg" link="alcatelphone_zoom.jpg" alt="Encore a glamshot" title="As I can't use it, it's far from being clean. It's a bit sad.">}}

I never tried it at home but i used it at work a bit.

## Alcatel ??
Another one from Alcatel but a *PS2* *black cherry*.

This one is more classic than the previous two.

{{< img src="alcatel_front.thumb.jpg" link="alcatel_front.jpg" alt="Another basic one." title="It's the doppleganger of the Siemens. These two were Cherry keyboards rebranded." >}}

{{< img src="alcatel_zoom.thumb.jpg" link="alcatel_zoom.jpg" alt="Another Glamshot" title="Ooops it's still a bit wet.">}}

I didn't used it a lot.

## Sesam ??
It's not it's real name but i'll explain it.
This one is the one currently used by my wife.

It's one the favorite but i won't spoil you !


This keyboard was used by french doctors.
It can read smartcard used by french people to get some medicine and all.
It's plugged with *PS2* and also *RS323* !

These are *black switches*.

I only plug the PS2 to use it.
It then boot !



I plug it back !

## IBM Model M
What would be any keyboard enthusiast without a Model M ?

{{< img src="modelm_front.thumb.jpg" link="modelm_front.jpg" alt="This is a very famous keyboard from the 80s with a different layout than what we are used to. It features keys from F1 to F24" title="The beast. The heaviest of them all !" >}}

Here is the legend !
It's not Cherry MX switches but it uses custom buckling springs.
The click is very distinctive but you'll need to press them hard.

{{< img src="modelm_open.thumb.jpg" link="modelm_open.jpg" alt="I opened it to understand why is it so heavy. There is thick metal plate in it." title="You just need to add four wheels to have a sturdy skateboard !"  >}}

The originat connector was a *DIN* which i cut to put a *Teensy inside to get USB*.
Bad luck, not every keys are recognized.
It's barely usable.

{{< img src="modelm_hack.thumb.jpg" link="modelm_hack.jpg" alt="The little teensy is a small PCB with a custom firmware to translate AT signal to USB Hid" title="It's quite a basic hack but it works but I should have put a longer cable !" >}}

Maybe tweaking the firmware (soarer) could help it work better.

I baught it for 10€.

{{< img src="modelm_zoom.thumb.jpg" link="modelm_zoom.jpg" alt="Encore un glamshot" title="From this close it looks normal." >}}

## My favorite !

This is my handmade keyboard with *Cherry MX Brown* using *USB*.

{{< img src="lrd201905_front.thumb.jpg" link="lrd201905_front.jpg" alt="A wooden frame, an aluminium plate, some wires, a teensy and some switches." title="Behold the polish !" >}}

It's a mix of different keycaps with four different profiles.
65 keys but one isn't used at all.

{{< img src="lrd201905_zoom.thumb.jpg" link="lrd201905_zoom.jpg" alt="L'ultime glam shot." title="It deserves to be cleant !">}}

This is the one i used for the last 4 years most of the time.

## Typematrix 2030

I don't have it anymore, so no photos.

I used it while i learned to type with the bépo layout ("french dvorak").
I gifted when my handmade was ready to be used.

## Combo clavier/trackpad Cherry G80-11800

The newcomer in my collection !
It's one of the few *Cherry Mx Brown* but its main peculiar point is its small trackball !

{{< img src="combotrackball_front.jpg" alt="It's a basic 90s keyboard but with a small trackball in its lower right corner" title="The design is very basic, bland, but the trackball gives it a peculiar look">}}

It's a simple cherry keyboard with a Compaq branding.
While looking at it you are back to the 90s.
This one is from 98 and plugs to the computer with 2 PS2.

{{< img src="combotrackball_zoom.jpg" alt="A not so glam glamshot." title="Nothing to see here.">}}

It's the first time i use a trackball and it may push me to buy one.
One with a bigger ball and a better ergonomic design.
This one is not so precise and the keyboard is not perfectly right to my taste.

{{< img src="combotrackball_trackball.jpg" alt="A close up to the ball" title="This trackball is small and not so precise but it's probably enough for lite use." >}}

---------
